These go verbs, these verbs that take go instead of o for the I version in the present
also behave a little bit strangely in the future tenses, in the will and would tenses
So we can look at that now and whilst looking at it revise the endings that we learned for will and would
So we said that our will endings, what we add on to the two form of the verb to get will, are the same as those very irregular versions of Aber in the present.
So we can make that connection.
to help us internalize them.
Can you talk me through those wheel endings?
So it's A for I.
And emos for us.
For we, very good.
A for he, she, it
and you formal an for they they are you plural and the last one you informal us good so we have the endings
And our endings for wood, which again we are adding onto the two form of the verb
We need to remember one key sound for would.
If we remember how to say I would like, that's a nice hook to remember the key sound.
So what is the key sound?
IA.
And then on to IA, we can add on, of course, our MOS or N or S if we need to.
Good.
So ga verbs, these verbs that have go and then ga for the mood tense, when they are building the futures, they have a contraction
But they all make the same contraction.
For example, I will have his tendre.
Tendre.
So of course it should be tenere.
No?
But it's tendre.
So that last E of Tenere turns into a D.
And we get ten dre.
This is a contraction because it means we end up with two syllables instead of three.
It would be tenere, but it's tendre, which just makes everything a little bit more efficient
But all of these verbs, these go verbs, are behaving in a similar way.
So we have to come
Benir.
And I will come.
Bendre.
Very good.
I would come.
The same contraction for both futures.
Vendria.
Good.
I would come.
We would come.
Vendriamos.
Vendriamos
We would come later, but we don't have time.
Pero no tenemos tiempo.
Good.
Vendriamos más tarde, pero no tenemos tiempo.
What was to put?
Poner.
And I put
Pongo.
So this ko-alerts us to the fact that this verb will behave in this
irregular way as well so if you want to say I will put it here how will it be I will put it here
Lopondre aquí.
Good.
I would put it here.
Lopondria aquí.
Good.
We would put it here
Lopondriamos aqui.
Good.
And we will put it here.
What was to leave or to go out?
Salir.
I leave or I go out?
Salgo.
So again this ko can set off a little alarm bell that this verb will probably be irregular in the futures.
So how would you say I would leave or I would go out?
Saldria.
Saldria, good.
You would leave or you would go out informally
Saltrias.
Will you leave?
Will you go out tonight?
Saltrias esta noche.
That's would you?
Now we want will you?
Saltras esta noche.
Good.
Saldras esta noche.
But of course we have esta noche, which is future context.
So we could just use the present.
We could just say you go out tonight.
We don't need the future, so how would that be?
Sales esta noche.
Good.
So for most go verbs
We take off the go and we put dre for I will and driya for I would.
With most of them.
Traer to bring doesn't do it.
Traer, I will bring.
I will attract.
Distraire, I will distract.
But most of these that have go will go to Dria or Dre.
Asser and Dasir, to do or to make or to say or to tell, Asir and Dasir are particularly irregular, and we've already seen this.
We've seen how after Aber they become Echo and Dicho.
It's very irregular.
We saw how the informal command from Asser is
As H A Z again irregular.
And here as well.
I will do is Are.
So it's not following this rule.
It's even more irregular.
We have are.
I will do or I will make
Are H A R E Are And all we need to do is identify one of these irregularities and then we understand that all of wheel and all of wood will use this same base.
the same bass that are has used.
So we will do or we will make is are good and we would do or we would make
Ariamos.
We would do it, but we're busy now.
Lo haríamos, pero estamos occupiedos ahora.
Good
Lo haríamos, pero estamos occupados ahora.
We would do it, but we're busy now.
So areíamos is we would do or we would make.
And what is we will do or we will make?
Aremos.
And they will do, they will make.
Aran.
Aran
I would say or I would tell is Diriya.
So we get from Desir Diria.
I would say, he would say, she would say, Ufumal would say.
Diria.
So, like I said, we just need one of these versions to understand how the rest will be.
So if deria is I would say or I would tell, how is I will say or I will tell?
Tire I will tell you later speaking informally.
Good.
Of course, having future context with mastarre, we could just say
I tell you later.
What was to be able to
Poder Poder.
How do you say I would be able to or I could?
Podria?
Podria.
Good.
The F falls out.
So this is a different irregularity.
This is not a go verb
Poderia.
Of course it was Poderia, but many years of Poderia, Poderia, Poderia, Poderia.
The air fell away.
Poderia.
How is to put?
Poner.
And I would put pondria.
Pondria.
Good.
So there's a subtle difference.
in sound between I would be able to podria and I would put pondria.
We would be able to
We would be able to.
That's we would put.
And we would put
Pondríamos.